## [Getting Started with Zed Attack Proxy](https://www.zaproxy.org/getting-started/)

### What are the three common stages of the Penetration Testing process and what tasks are performed at each one?
* **Explore** – The tester attempts to learn about the system being tested. This includes trying to determine what software is in use, what endpoints exist, what patches are installed, etc. It also includes searching the site for hidden content, known vulnerabilities, and other indications of weakness.
* **Attack** – The tester attempts to exploit the known or suspected vulnerabilities to prove they exist.
* **Report** – The tester reports back the results of their testing, including the vulnerabilities, how they exploited them and how difficult the exploits were, and the severity of the exploitation.
### Explain a “main-in-the-middle proxy” in non-technical terms.
When an attacker secretly inserts themselves between a user and a website, allowing them to eavesdrop, alter data, or inject malware. This can happen without the user knowing and can result in stolen login info, sensitive data, or malware
### What are the 2 spiders available for use in ZAP?
* **Traditional Spider**: This spider discovers links by examining the HTML in responses from the web application. It's fast and effective for traditional web applications, but not suitable for AJAX applications that generate links using JavaScript.
* **AJAX Spider**: This spider explores the web application by invoking browsers, which then follow the links generated by JavaScript. It's more effective for AJAX applications, but slower than the traditional spider and requires additional configuration for use in a "headless" environment.
### What situations are they best suited for?
* **Traditional Spider**
  * Traditional web applications that don't use JavaScript to generate links
  * Scanning web applications that have a static HTML structure
* **AJAX Spider**
  * AJAX-based web applications that generate links using JavaScript
  * Scanning web applications that use dynamic content generation, such as those written in PHP, Ruby, or Python
##### Bookmark and Review
##### [Python Tools for Cyber](https://hackersonlineclub.com/python-tools/)
